So, in this tutorial, we're going to be
going over how to add PBR textures to
absolutely any model in Blender. And of
course, before we do this, we need to
make sure we have some of these textures
downloaded. So, in my case, I'm going to
get them from my own website, which is
cg matter.com.
You can get textures from absolutely
anywhere. In this case, I'm just going
to be using my own. I'm going to use
this right here.
And then we get these seamless textures
for free, at least on this website. And
I'm going to download 2K version. And
then once you do this, it's going to
eventually start downloading. Of course,
mine is already downloaded here. And
you're going to get a ambient occlusion,
base color, height, metallic, normal,
and roughness maps. And we want to know
how to add these into a material in
Blender. So, we can actually close this
right here.
So, how do we add this to our cube? So,
we're going to start off by going to
shading. And we want to have a HDRI, so
we have some lighting going on. So, I'm
going to change this to world. And I
already made a tutorial on how to add an
HDRI, so I'm going to do it quickly, but
I'll try to explain it. We're going to
close this.
We're going to click shift A, which is
going to let us add a texture,
environment texture. We're going to
connect this to the surface of the
world. And then we're going to open any
HDRI you already have downloaded. In
this case, I'll be using this one. And
then here we go.
Now, we actually want to work on the
material of the cube. So, how do we do
that?
So, what you want to do is go over to
object. And by default, you should
already have a principled BSDF with an
output set up. If you don't, you can
close whatever material you have, click
new, and it will show up. If for some
reason you don't like that, you can just
um hit shift A,
go to shader, and then add a principled
BSDF shader right here. And then you
have the same thing, connect those, and
we're back to square one. Okay, so how
do we connect all these maps? So, we're
going to go in some kind of order. So,
first of all, ambient occlusion. This
one is special because we actually do
not need it in Blender. This is pretty
much calculated on render in cycles and
in Eevee. Um this is more for game
engines. So, we we don't actually use
this. So, we're going to start with base
color. We're just going to drag this in.
And of course, base color is going to be
the color of the cube. So, we're going
to take this color and connect it to
base color.
And there we go. It's showing up.
Next, what we want to do is we're going
to go to metallic. We're going to drag
this in.
And then one special thing about
metallic is you don't want to
necessarily take this and just connect
it to metallic because you need to make
sure this right here, this color, is set
to non-color data. And that's because a
metallic map is basically supposed to be
values between zero and one, not
necessarily the color data.
Okay? So, we have that.
Next, we're going to go over to
roughness, which same business. We're
going to take it. We're going to connect
it to roughness. But we want to set this
color to non-color data cuz we want
values between zero and one.
Okay?
Next, we have Let's see. We can do
normal and height. And for these, we
kind of combine them in a special way.
I'll show you how. So, we're going to
take our normal map, bring them in here.
We are going to take our height map.
Some people call it a displacement map.
These things are generally the same.
And then we put this right here. Okay,
so we have these two maps. And what I'm
going to do is I'm going to set both of
these to non-color data. This is very
important. If you don't do this, it's
going to look very bizarre.
Okay, now what we need is a bump node.
So, you just click shift A. And in here,
you can type bump, or you can try to
find it. I think it's in vector bump.
Okay? And then in this bump, we see we
have a normal input and a height input.
So, it's pretty obvious what you do.
Take this height, or no, this one's the
height. Take the height and put it in
height.
And note that this normal input is
purple, while this one is yellow. Uh
this is indicating that this is just a
image. It's a texture. It's not a normal
map. So, what we have to do is convert
it. So, shift A. And then here, you can
either type normal map or go to vector
and add a normal map node.
We're going to take this, connect it.
So, now we have a normal map. And then
we're going to connect this in here.
And then finally, we take this bump
node, connect it into our normal socket.
Okay, it's going to take a second, and
already it's looking much more 3D.
Now, let's say that this is like these
bricks are too big. You want them to
tile smaller. So, you want more tiles.
So, the question is how do you do this?
What we're going to do is we're going to
take each of our image inputs, and we're
going to line them up.
Take these three,
shift them over. Whoops, accidentally
shifted over this one, too.
And what we want to do is basically
change the mapping so that we add twice
as much or three times as many bricks
here. So, what we want to do,
shift A,
and then you want to add a couple
things. So, you're going to start off
with a mapping node. So, go to vector,
mapping.
And then you're going to connect this
vector to each of these. So, that's
going to be a couple of connections.
Whoops.
Let me close that.
Connect this here.
A bit
a bit of work, but overall, less work
than making a a shader from scratch. So,
we're going to connect all of these.
Okay, so now we have this mapping node,
and we're going to want to change the
size. But before we do that, we need to
add a coordinate input. So, you're going
to click shift A. And then I believe it
is in input, texture coordinates. And
then it depends on what uh coordinates
you're using. Um most of the time you
use UV maps. So, we're going to be using
a UV map. There are cases where you use
other things. But in this case, um our
cube, if you go to UV editing,
uh you see that it's already UV mapped.
So, that's why we're using that.
Okay, so now we have this coordinate
going into this mapping, which is going
into all our textures, which are doing
their respective things.
Okay, so how do we actually affect this?
Well, you just drag the scale, and you
see what it's doing already. So, let's
uh double it in both directions.
There we go.
And I don't actually know what the Z
does. I think it's irrelevant to this
case. Yeah, it doesn't do anything.
At least I don't think it does anything.
Let's see.
Yeah, it doesn't do anything.
Uh if we want even more tiles, again,
this is seamless, so it's going to work
out. We can have triple as many. So,
three times. And then this is how you do
it. And of course, we have a seam along
here because there's a seam in our UV
map here.
But generally, this is how you do it.
Um and just to see the full effects, by
the way, we've been using Eevee this
whole time. But again, this setup for
Eevee is identical to that of cycles. We
just switched this over to cycles, and
you see that everything is working.
Change this to GPU compute. Goes a bit
faster on my computer.
And you see it's already working here.
And if you want to see this um lighting
change around so you can really see the
depth in the bricks and all this,
go back to world, and we're going to do
a similar setup here.
So, with our HDRI, we're going to add a
mapping. This time, I'm just going to
type it in.
Add our mapping.
And then we're going to add some
coordinates. So, input, texture
coordinate. And in this case, I'm pretty
sure we use generated, not UV. So,
that's an instance where you use
generated.
Okay? And this is actually a case where
we use our Z input. I can like rotate
this
like that, and then you see the lighting
is changing. Takes a bit because it's
cycles.
We can actually just go back to Eevee
like that. And then we can get a more
fluid motion. And by the way, as I said,
we don't need ambient occlusion map.
Cycle cycles obviously does it. But uh
Eevee, you just click ambient occlusion,
and you see these gaps in between the
bricks automatically get their ambient
occlusion. So, this is how you do PBR in
Blender. So, again, we do not we do not
use ambient occlusion unless you want to
do some like very weird stylistic thing.
It's not physically accurate. You don't
want to use it.
Base color goes in base color.
Um let's see. Metallic goes in metallic,
but set this to non-color. Roughness in
roughness, set it to non-color. You take
your normal and height, and change your
normal into a normal map, and then feed
them both into a bump, and then put this
in our normal socket. And then we can
al- always change um our tiling using
these. And then one final note is with
this bump map, you can actually control
how much this thing is uh at least looks
like it it's uh extruding.
So, we can change the strength here,
and you can see
how that works. Generally, you want to
keep this at one unless your uh textures
aren't uh pre-calibrated to already be
like exactly what you want. So, again, I
used uh textures from cgmatter.com.
Textures for free if you want them
there. I mean, it's an advertisement for
my own site, but
it's free. So, consider it, maybe. So,
hopefully this helped. Thank you for
watching, and hope you learned
something.